## Function Scope

Function Scope can hide the code for keeping private. Another benifit of hiding varibles and functions inside a scope is to avoid unintended collision between two different identifiers with the same name but different indended usages.

## Block Scope

```javascript
var foo = true;
if (foo) {
  if (foo) {
    var bar = 3;
  }
  console.log("inside", bar); // 3
}
console.log("outside", bar); // 3
```

It's a fake **block scope**, where we declare variables is not relevant when using var, because they will always belong to the enclosing scope.


## Block Scope
block scope is to hide information about varibales and functions

1. with
2. try/catch
try is not a block scope but catch is.
3. let
Declarations made with let will not hoist to the entire scope of the block they appear in.

## Garbage Collection
Another reason blocl-scoping is useful relates to closure and garbage collection to reclaim memory.

``` javascript
function process(data) {
    // do something interesting
}

var someReallyBigData = { .. };

process( someReallyBigData );

var btn = document.getElementById( "my_button" );

btn.addEventListener( "click", function click(evt){
    console.log("button clicked");
}, /*capturingPhase=*/false );
```
Theoretically, after the process function runs, the garbage collector will reclaim its memory. However, the click event creates a closure that retains access to the above variables. Even though the entire code has been executed, the click event still retains access to those variables and functions. As a result, the engine will still have to keep the large, memory-heavy data structure in memory.

Block-scoping can address this concern

``` javascript
// anything declared inside this block can go away after!
{
    let someReallyBigData = { .. };

    process( someReallyBigData );
}
```

Transpilation is commonly used in the JavaScript ecosystem, where tools like Babel allow developers to write modern JavaScript (ES6+) that can then be transpiled down to ES5 for broader compatibility across various browsers that may not support the latest features of JavaScript.
