# Scope Closure

## How Scope Works

Hoisting during lexing phase before interpreted. Meanwhile the engine remember variables and functions declarations in perspective scope. At execution, the engine looks up the variables and functions by their identifier names and assigns values.

## What's closure

Closure is when a function is able to remember and access its lexical scope even when that function is executing outside its lexical scope.

Any of the various ways that functions can be passed around as values, and indeed invoked in other locations, are all examples of observing/exercising closure.

Examples

```javascript
function foo() {
  var a = 2;

  function bar() {
    console.log(a);
  }

  return bar;
}

var baz = foo();

baz();
```

bar() is executed, for sure. But in this case, it’s executed outside of its declared lexical scope.
bar() still has a reference to that scope, and that reference is called closure.

```javascript
function foo() {
  var a = 2;

  function baz() {
    console.log(a); // 2
  }

  bar(baz);
}

function bar(fn) {
  fn(); // look ma, I saw closure!
}
```

baz's closure over the inner scope of foo() is observed by accessing a.
So I think is not actually a closure, it just accesses a from lexical scope.

```javascript
var fn;

function foo() {
  var a = 2;

  function baz() {
    console.log(a);
  }

  fn = baz; // assign baz to global variable
}

function bar() {
  fn(); // look ma, I saw closure!
}

foo();

bar(); // 2
```

This baz forms a closure.

## Now we can see

When you pass in a callback function, get ready to sling some closure around, such as timers, ajax, cross-window messaging, web workers, or any of the other asynchronous, synchronous tasks.

## Leverage the Full Power of Closure

### Loops and Closure

IIFE solve the problem.

```javascript
for (var i = 1; i <= 5; i++) {
  setTimeout(function timer() {
    console.log(i);
  }, i * 1000);
}
```

```javascript
for (var i = 1; i <= 5; i++) {
  (function (j) {
    setTimeout(function timer() {
      console.log(j);
    }, j * 1000);
  })(i);
}
```

### Block Scoping Revisited

We used an IIFE to create new scope per-iteration, **let** declaration which hijacks a block and declares a variable right there in the block.

```javascript
for (let i = 1; i <= 5; i++) {
  setTimeout(function timer() {
    console.log(i);
  }, i * 1000);
}
```

### Modules

There are other code patterns that leverage the power of closure but that do not on the surface appear to be about callbacks.

```javascript
function CoolModule() {
  var something = "cool";
  var another = [1, 2, 3];

  function doSomething() {
    console.log(something);
  }

  function doAnother() {
    console.log(another.join(" ! "));
  }

  return {
    doSomething: doSomething,
    doAnother: doAnother,
  };
}

var foo = CoolModule();

foo.doSomething(); // cool
foo.doAnother(); // 1 ! 2 ! 3
```

We simply have some private data variables _something_ and _another_, and a couple of inner func
_doSomething()_ and _doAnother()_, which both have lexical scope(and thhus closure) over the inner scope of _foo()_

#### Let's examine some things about this code

1. First, <mark>CoolModule</mark>is just a function, but it has to be invoked for there to be a module instance created.
2. Second, the <mark>CoolModule</mark> function returns an object, denoted by the object-literal syntax {}. The object we return has references on it to our inner functions, but not to our inner data variables. We keep those hidden and private. It’s appropriate to think of this object return value as essentially a public API for our module.

This object return value is ultimately assigned to the outer variable foo, and then we can access those property methods on the API, like <mark>foo.doSomething()</mark>.

### Modern Modules
